CORE-19035: New Deployment Schema Documentation (#2049)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/platform/corda/5.2/deploying-operating/deployment/deploying/_index.md

#### Recommended Infrastructure

For an AWS topology, R3 recommends the following initial configuration:

* Kubernetes: For a cluster with a single replica of each worker, a Kubernetes cluster with two `t3.2xlarge` nodes is a reasonable starting point. For a cluster with three replicas of each worker, extend that to four nodes.
* RDS PostgreSQL: `db.r5.large` instance size is sufficient for both a Corda cluster with a single replica of each worker and three replicas of each worker, subject to the persistence requirements of any {{< tooltip >}}CorDapp{{< /tooltip >}} running in the cluster.

> * MSK: For a cluster with a single replica of each worker and a topic replica count of three, a Kafka cluster of three `kafka.t3.small` instances may suffice. In a high-availability topology with three replicas of each worker and a topic replica count of three, R3 recommends five brokers using at least `kafka.m5.large` instances.

Reviewer: @jujoramos - this information dates back to 5.0. Does the ORR team have any more up-to-date recommendations here? Or would it be better to remove this section (and make this information available internally)?

Author: Removed ✅ .

* [Cluster Database](#cluster-database)
* [State Manager Databases](#state-manager-databases)

Corda supports using multiple databases in isolation to spread the load and improve horizontal scalability.
All databases must be defined only once within the deployment configuration and any dependant component can simply reference the database by `id`. This greatly simplifies maintenance and reduces redundant information.

{{< note >}}

> A database with an `id` set as `default` is always mandatory. Corda uses this database if nothing else is configured.

Reviewer: So, if you specify a different database in all of the necessary places, is it really mandatory?

Author: It is, yes:
```
        "databases": {
            "type": "array",
            "minItems": 1,
            "title": "List of databases used by the platform",
            "items": {
                "type": "object",
                "allOf": [
                    {
                        "$ref": "#/$defs/databaseTemplate"
                    }
                ],
                "required": [
                    "name",
                    "host",
                    "port",
                    "type"
                ]
            },
            "$comment": "At least one 'default' database must be defined",
            "contains": {
                "type": "object",
                "properties": {
                    "id": {
                        "type": "string",
                        "const": "default"
                    }
                }
            }
        },
```

{{< /note >}}

#### Cluster Database

The following Corda workers require access to the cluster database, and credentials must be specified for each one independently.

* Crypto Workers
* Database Workers
* Persistence Workers
* Token Selection Workers
* Uniqueness Workers

By default, Corda expects a database named `cordacluster`, but you can override this, as follows:

```yaml
databases:
  - id: "default"
    host: <POSTGRESQL_HOST1>
    name: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_NAME>
    port: 5432
    type: "postgresql"
```

A single set of credentials can be specified by referencing, under each worker, the following configuration that defines a Kubernetes secret containing the `username` and `password`:

```yaml
config:
  username:
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        key: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_USERNAME_SECRET_KEY>
        name: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_USERNAME_SECRET_NAME>
  password:
    valueFrom:
      secretKeyRef:
        key: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_PASSWORD_SECRET_KEY>
        name: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_PASSWORD_SECRET_NAME>

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think the Helm chart does support this, does it? You have to provide credentials per-worker.

Reviewer 2: I think this comes back to my original confusion. I think maybe we should have an example showing the reference from under a worker?

Author: Fixed.

      password:
        valueFrom:
          secretKeyRef:
            key: <POSTGRESQL_UNIQUENESS_WORKER_PASSWORD_SECRET_KEY>
            name: <POSTGRESQL_UNIQUENESS_WORKER_PASSWORD_SECRET_NAME>
```

Note that, as elsewhere, credentials can be specified directly as part of the overrides using `value` instead of `valueFrom`:

```yaml
username:
  value: <USERNAME>
password:
  value: <USERNAME>
```

{{< note >}}
Although the password can be specified directly as a Helm override, R3 does not recommend this for security reasons.
Similarly, although all Corda workers can share the same set of credentials, R3 recommends you create a Kubernetes Secret per Corda worker containing the credentials.
{{< /note >}}

If required, the connection pool used when interacting with the database can also be independently configured at the `config` level within each worker:

```yaml
config:
  connectionPool:
    minSize: <MIN_CONNECTION_POOL_SIZE>
    maxSize: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_SIZE>
    maxLifetimeSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_LIFE_TIME_SECONDS>
    idleTimeoutSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS>
    keepAliveTimeSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_KEEP_ALIVE_TIME_SECONDS>

>     validationTimeoutSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_VALIDATION_TIME_OUT_SECONDS>

Reviewer: We good if, as in the state manager case, this was given as an example under a worker (given we have a top-level `config` field).

Author: 👍

* [Cluster Database](#cluster-database)
* [State Manager Databases](#state-manager-databases)

The Platform supports using multiple databases in isolation to spread the load and improve horizontal scalability.
Starting with version 5.2, all databases must be defined only once within the deployment configuration so that any dependant component can simply reference the database by `id`, this greatly simplifies maintenance and reduces redundant information.

{{< note >}}
A database with an id set as `default` is always mandatory and, as the names suggests, it will be the database used by default by the Platform if nothing else is configured.
{{< /note >}}

#### Cluster Database

The following Corda Workers require access to the Cluster database, and credentials must be specified for each one independently.

* Crypto Workers.
* Database Workers.
* Persistence Workers.
* Token Selection Workers.
* Uniqueness Workers.

By default, the installation expects a database named `cordacluster`, but this can be overridden:

```yaml
databases:
  - id: "default"
    host: <POSTGRESQL_HOST1>
    name: <POSTGRESQL_CLUSTER_DATABASE_NAME>
    port: 5432
    type: "postgresql"
```

> A single set of credentials can be specified by referencing, under each worker, a Kubernetes secret containing the `username` and `password`:

Author: The credentials to be referenced if they are shared across workers (aka one single secret for everyone).

> A single set of credentials can be specified by referencing, under each worker, a Kubernetes secret containing the `username` and `password`:

Reviewer 2: So maybe?:

```suggestion
A single set of credentials can be specified by referencing, under each worker, the following configuration that defines a Kubernetes secret containing the `username` and `password`:
```

```yaml
username:
  value: <USERNAME>
password:
  value: <USERNAME>
```

{{< note >}}
Even though the password can be specified directly as a Helm override, it is not recommended for security reasons.
Similarly, even though all Corda Workers can share the same set of credentials, doing so would compromise the security, so it is not recommended either.
Instead, it is recommended to create a Kubernetes Secret per Corda Worker containing.
{{< /note >}}

If required, the connection pool used when interacting with the database can also be independently configured at the `config` level within each worker:

```yaml
config:
  connectionPool:
    minSize: <MIN_CONNECTION_POOL_SIZE>
    maxSize: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_SIZE>
    maxLifetimeSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_LIFE_TIME_SECONDS>
    idleTimeoutSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_IDLE_TIMEOUT_SECONDS>
    keepAliveTimeSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_KEEP_ALIVE_TIME_SECONDS>
    validationTimeoutSeconds: <MAX_CONNECTION_POOL_VALIDATION_TIME_OUT_SECONDS>
```

#### State Manager Databases

Corda requires one or more PostgreSQL database instances for persisting different State types, these are referred to as State Manager databases.

> Since multiple Corda Workers use, and sometimes share, these database instances, it is recommended to deploy separate and isolated instances for each State type, as doing so improves both the performance and scalability of the Platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple Corda workers use, and sometimes share, these database instances and so, to improve both performance and scalability, we recommend deploying separate and isolated instances for each state type.
```

If not possible due to cost restrictions, consider at least isolating the following state types in production environments:

* Flow Mapping
* Flow Checkpoints
* Token Pool Cache (if [Token Selection Services]({{< relref "../../../developing-applications/api/ledger/utxo-ledger/token-selection" >}}) are used)

> The following table shows the relationship between Corda Workers and State types, along with the access type required by each one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following table shows the relationship between Corda workers and state types and with the access type required by each one:
```

| `flowMapping`                              | `flowMapper`                                | READ/WRITE                                  | `sm_flow_mapping`                              |
| `flowStatus`                               | `rest`                                      | READ/WRITE                                  | `sm_flow_status`                               |
| `keyRotation`                              | `rest`                                      | READ                                        | `sm_key_rotation`                              |
| `keyRotation`                              | `crypto`                                    | READ/WRITE                                  | `sm_key_rotation`                              |
| `p2pSession`                               | `p2pLinkManager`                            | READ/WRITE                                  | `sm_p2p_session`                               |
| `tokenPoolCache`                           | `tokenSelection`                            | READ/WRITE                                  | `sm_token_pool_cache`                          |

{{< note >}}

> If you do not configure isolated State Manager databases, by default Corda deploys all of them to the `default` Cluster database, not recommended for production environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not configure isolated state manager databases, by default, Corda deploys all of them to the `default` cluster database. This is not recommended for production environments.
```

{{< /note >}}

> Similarly to the Cluster database, the configuration for these State Manager database instances is defined using a combination of the `database` and `stateManager` sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly to the cluster database, the configuration for these state manager database instances is defined using a combination of the `database` and `stateManager` sections.
```

> Below is a fully fledged example of how to keep the Cluster database and the State Manager databases completely isolated from each other.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is a full example of how to keep the cluster database and all of the state manager databases completely isolated from each other.
```

    host: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_DATABASE_HOST>
    name: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_DATABASE_NAME>
    port: 5432
    type: "postgresql"
  - id: "p2p-session-state-manager"
    host: <POSTGRESQL_P2P_SESSION_DATABASE_HOST>
    name: <POSTGRESQL_P2P_SESSION_DATABASE_NAME>
    port: 5432
    type: "postgresql"
  - id: "token-pool-cache-state-manager"
    host: <POSTGRESQL_TOKEN_POOL_CACHE_DATABASE_HOST>
    name: <POSTGRESQL_TOKEN_POOL_CACHE_DATABASE_NAME>
    port: 5432
    type: "postgresql"

stateManager:
  flowCheckpoint:
    type: Database
    storageId: "flow-checkpoint-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_flow_checkpoint"
  flowMapping:
    type: Database
    storageId: "flow-mapping-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_flow_mapping"
  flowStatus:
    type: Database
    storageId: "flow-status-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_flow_status"
  keyRotation:
    type: Database
    storageId: "key-rotation-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_key_rotation"
  p2pSession:
    type: Database
    storageId: "p2p-session-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_p2p_session"
  tokenPoolCache:
    type: Database
    storageId: "token-pool-cache-state-manager"
    partition: "sm_token_pool_cache"
```

> Opposite to the above (only recommended for development environments), the example below shows how a single database instance can be used for the Cluster and another database instance, isolated, can be used for all State Manager state types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In contrast to the above, and only recommended for development environments, the following example shows how a single database instance can be used for the cluster and another database instance, isolated, can be used for all state manager state types.
```

              name: <POSTGRESQL_TOKEN_POOL_CACHE_USERNAME_SECRET_NAME>
        password:
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              key: <POSTGRESQL_TOKEN_POOL_CACHE_PASSWORD_SECRET_KEY>
              name: <POSTGRESQL_TOKEN_POOL_CACHE_PASSWORD_SECRET_NAME>
  rest:
    stateManager:
      keyRotation:
        username:
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              key: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_REST_WORKER_USERNAME_SECRET_KEY>
              name: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_REST_WORKER_USERNAME_SECRET_NAME>
        password:
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              key: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_REST_WORKER_PASSWORD_SECRET_KEY>
              name: <POSTGRESQL_KEY_ROTATION_REST_WORKER_PASSWORD_SECRET_NAME>
      flowStatus:
        username:
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              key: <POSTGRESQL_FLOW_STATUS_USERNAME_SECRET_KEY>
              name: <POSTGRESQL_FLOW_STATUS_USERNAME_SECRET_NAME>
        password:
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              key: <POSTGRESQL_FLOW_STATUS_PASSWORD_SECRET_KEY>
              name: <POSTGRESQL_FLOW_STATUS_PASSWORD_SECRET_NAME>
```

> Note that, here, as elsewhere, credentials can be specified directly as part of the overrides using `value` instead of `valueFrom`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that, as elsewhere, credentials can be specified directly as part of the overrides using `value` instead of `valueFrom`:
```

```yaml
username:
  value: <USERNAME>
password:
  value: <USERNAME>
```

{{< note >}}

> Even though the password can be specified directly as a Helm override, it is not recommended for security reasons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the password can be specified directly as a Helm override, it is not recommended for security reasons.
```

> Similarly, even though Corda Workers can share the same set of credentials when sharing a State Manager database, doing so would compromise the security, so it is not recommended either.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly, although all Corda workers can share the same set of credentials, doing so compromises security and so is also not recommended.
```

> Instead, it is recommended to create a Kubernetes Secret per Corda Worker and State Type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, we recommend you create a Kubernetes Secret per Corda worker containing the credentials.
```

{{< /note >}}

> If required, the connection pool used when interacting with the database can be independently configured for each state type within each worker, as an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If required, the connection pool used when interacting with the database can be independently configured for each state type within each worker. For example:
```

            key: "password"
  ```

> For security reasons, it is recommended to use separate bootstrap and runtime credentials for all databases, which is what the installation does by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For security reasons, we recommended using separate bootstrap and runtime credentials for all databases. This is the default behaviour.
```

> If desired, this can be changed at deployment time by overriding the Helm Chart values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If required, you can change this at deployment time by overriding the Helm Chart values.
```

The example in this section is included only for illustrative purposes. You must use the information provided to determine the correct configuration file for your environment.
{{< /warning >}}

The following example shows a complete configuration file for Corda deployment in an environment in which:

> - ahe Cluster database is isolated from the State Manager database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the Cluster database is isolated from the State Manager database.
```

> - all manged state types are stored within a single State Manager database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- all managed state types are stored within a single State Manager database.
```

The example in this section is included only for illustrative purposes. You must use the information provided to determine the correct configuration file for your environment.
{{< /warning >}}

The following example shows a complete configuration file for Corda deployment in an environment in which:

> - The Cluster database is isolated from the State Manager database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the Cluster database is isolated from the State Manager database.
```

> - All manged state types are stored within a single State Manager database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- all manged state types are stored within a single state manager database.
```

> - Kafka is using a trusted TLS certificate and SASL authentication is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Kafka uses a trusted TLS certificate and SASL authentication is enabled.
```

> - Runtime credentials (unique per worker) to access Cluster database are automatically generated during deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- runtime credentials (unique per worker) to access cluster databases are automatically generated during deployment.
```

> - Runtime credentials (unique per worker and state type) to access State Manager database are automatically generated during deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- runtime credentials (unique per worker and state type) to access state manager database are automatically generated during deployment.
```

> - The REST API is exposed via an AWS Network Load Balancer, and the generated password for the initial admin user is retrieved from a secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- the REST API is exposed via an AWS Network Load Balancer, and the generated password for the initial admin user is retrieved from a secret.
```
